#summary Installation and initial Set-up
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

The following steps take you through how to install PET on your server.

= Requirements =
In order to run PET you will need a server or PC with
 * Apache installed
 * MySQL Installed
 * A fixed IP address (at least locally)

You will also need access to a MySQL administrator account on the server. If you are using a standalone PC to act as the PET Server, a packaged installation of Apache, MySQL and PHP (for example XAMPP) may be used.

==Getting hold of PET==
There are three zipfiles in the downloads area
 * PET_PHP_Vx_x_x.zip
 * PET_TEMPLATES_Vx_x_x.zip
 * PET_Smarty.zip

These need to be downloaded and extracted. The PHP files should be placed in a directory under the web-root of the Apache server (eg /var/html/pet or htdocs/pet in XAMPP). The templates need to be in a directory below this called /taskmon_templates/templates (eg /var/html/pet/taskmon_templates/templates). If you don't already have Smarty on your server, these files also need to be downloaded. See  the section below on Smarty for more details.

= Setting up the database =
 * From the MySQL administrator account open and run the script *database_setup.sql*. This will create all of the required tables and the basic lookup data
 * Create a user account for the 'PET' database, and grant the user select, insert, update and delete privileges on the PET database
 * Modify the *environment.php* file with the username and password of the database user

*Note*. If you want to install multiple instances of PET, or change the database name you will need to search and replace all instances of PET in the [http://code.google.com/p/project-estimate-tracker/source/browse/trunk/sql/database_setup.sql database_setup.sql] file, and change the database name in *environment.php* 

= Setting up Smarty =
PET uses a PHP Template Engine called [http://www.smarty.net/ Smarty]. Smarty's library files need to be installed under the web-root of your Apache server, and the $smartyPath variable in the *smarty_init.php* needs to point to the installation location of Smarty.

Smarty also needs several directories inside the PET folder. By default these are
 * taskmon_templates/templates
 * taskmon_templates/templates_c
 * taskmon_templates/cache
 * taskmon_templates/configs

As mentioned earlier the templates zip file needs to be expanded in the templates directory

Once all the files are installed you are ready to start

=Setting up the browser to connect to PET=
In order for the browser to connect to PET it needs a URL. The simplest form of this is the IP address of the server followed by the directory name of PET (eg 192.0.0.10/PET). However, to make things tidier a full URL should be specified. If you are using a conventional Apache installation you can specify this in the Apache configuration files.

If you are using a local installation (for example on XAMPP) you can specify this on the client machines, by altering the *hosts* file. On a windows machine this is stored under

c:\windows\system32\drivers\etc\hosts

Add in a line with your servers IP address and point it to a url. eg

192.0.0.10  PET

from the browser you can then got to http:\\pet\

=Logging in for the first time=
Type in the URL you set  up in the previous stage into the URL bar of your browser. If the set-up worked successfully you should see the PET login window.

For the first time you may login with the username *zzz*. This is the general user - and will allow you to set-up all of the other users needed.